Hi everyone!
Let's learn together.
Python escape characters to insert characters that are illegal in a string.
Use an escape character.
An escape character is a backslash followed by the character you want to insert.
An example of an illegal character is a double quote inside a string that is surrounded by double quotes.
Here in this example, we have a string surrounded by double quotes.
When insert inside this string a double quote.
Python will throw a syntax error.
To fix this problem, we use the escape character, a backslash.
Before each double quote.
It will be like that, and Python in this case will accept the syntax.
The second example we add a backslash before a single quote.
When the string is surrounded by single quotes, there are other escape characters, like a backslash,
like a new line, a tab octal value.
Let's go to PyCharm and execute some examples.
here.
In the first example, we said that Python doesn't accept a double quote inside a string surrounded
by double quote.
The solution?
It will be with an escape character, a backslash.
Before each double quote, let's execute the code.
And we have the result a double quote inside the string.
The second example a backslash before a single quote when the string is surrounded by a single quote.
And also this is the output without any problem.
There are other escape characters like her a backslash n for a new line.
For it.
And also there are other escape characters used by Python string.
And that's it for this video.